tap · Docs - Routecraft Routecraft Docs Blog Cheat sheet Changelog Search Getting Started Installation Changelog Introduction What is Routecraft Project structure Capabilities The Exchange Operations Adapters Events Testing Deployment Monitoring Terminal UI Advanced Plugins Composing Capabilities Error Handling Filter Chain Merged Options Type Registries Creating adapters Programmatic Invocation Running an MCP server Calling an MCP Judging Agent Results Securing capabilities Linting Formatting Reference Adapters Operations Events Configuration CLI Runtime Plugins Linting Errors Examples File to HTTP MCP tool Support triage agent Community Contribution Guide FAQ v0.6.0 Ask Claude tap ← All operations tap ( target : Destination < Current > | Enricher < Current , unknown > | CallableEnricher < Current , unknown > ) : RouteBuilder < Current > Copy Execute side effects without changing the exchange. The tap operation is async fire-and-forget - it runs in the background and never blocks the main route. A tap accepts a destination (its send runs against the snapshot) or an enricher (its fetch runs and the result is discarded); when both slots exist, send wins. Results are always discarded - a tap observes. The tap receives a deep copy of the exchange with: New exchange ID Cloned body and headers Correlation ID preserved for traceability back to parent exchange // Simple function-based tapping . tap ( log ( ) ) // Built-in logging . tap ( ( exchange ) => console . log ( 'Processing:' , exchange . body ) ) . tap ( async ( exchange ) => await sendNotification ( exchange . body ) ) // Multiple taps for different concerns . tap ( analytics ( ) ) . tap ( monitoring ( ) ) . to ( primaryDestination ) Copy Key behaviors: Async fire-and-forget : Main route continues immediately without waiting Exchange snapshot : Tap receives a deep copy with new ID and correlation metadata Results discarded : A fetch result or a value returned by a function form is thrown away, and receipt headers set through the SendContext sink are discarded with the snapshot Error isolation : Errors in tap are emitted to the route error handler but don't halt the main exchange (already fire-and-forget) Lifecycle aware : Routes and context wait for all taps to complete during shutdown via drain() Perfect for : Logging, auditing, notifications, analytics, monitoring Lifecycle: Routes complete without waiting for taps Taps are tracked by the route and waited for during drain() context.stop() automatically calls context.drain() to wait for all tap jobs Ensures all async work finishes before shutdown completes
