Introduction · Docs - Routecraft Routecraft Docs Blog Cheat sheet Changelog Search Getting Started Installation Changelog Introduction What is Routecraft Project structure Capabilities The Exchange Operations Adapters Events Testing Deployment Monitoring Terminal UI Advanced Plugins Composing Capabilities Error Handling Filter Chain Merged Options Type Registries Creating adapters Programmatic Invocation Running an MCP server Calling an MCP Judging Agent Results Securing capabilities Linting Formatting Reference Adapters Operations Events Configuration CLI Runtime Plugins Linting Errors Examples File to HTTP MCP tool Support triage agent Community Contribution Guide FAQ Introduction v0.6.0 Ask Claude Introduction What Routecraft is and how it works. What is Routecraft? Routecraft is a code-first automation platform for TypeScript that bridges traditional integration (Software 1.0) and AI-native workflows (Software 3.0). Whether you need to process a daily CSV on a cron job, route incoming webhooks, or give Claude the ability to manage your Google Calendar, Routecraft handles it all through a single, unified DSL. Routecraft is built for both eras of software: Traditional Automation: Build robust data pipelines, process webhooks, and run scheduled tasks with a type-safe DSL. AI-Native Tools: Expose those exact same capabilities to Claude, ChatGPT, Cursor, and other agents via MCP. TypeScript all the way. Full IDE support, version controlled, and testable. Secure by Design Nothing is accessible until you explicitly write a capability for it. Write a deterministic capability for predictable, code-controlled actions. Write a non-deterministic one and the agent reasons within the boundary you defined. You define what AI can do, and the code enforces it. Fig. 01 — Trigger topology Active: cron → agent sources destinations cron cron('0 9 * * 1-5') mcp mcp() http http({ path: '/brief' }) mail mail('INBOX') file file({ path: 'inbox.csv' }) timer timer({ every: 60_000 }) file file({ path: 'brief.md' }) log log() mail mail() direct direct('publish-brief') agent agent('eywa') http http({ url }) capability morning-brief .transform(summarise) one capability · every trigger trigger: cron mcp http mail file timer Core Concepts These concepts give you a high-level map of how everything fits together. Capabilities and Routes From an AI agent's perspective, everything you build is a Capability : a discoverable action it can invoke, like "send an email" or "book a meeting." Under the hood, each capability is implemented as a Route : a TypeScript pipeline connecting a source to one or more steps (operations, processors, or adapters), and eventually to a destination . Capabilities can be fully deterministic (the same input always produces the same output) or non-deterministic (an embedded agent reasons and decides at runtime). You choose the level of autonomy for each one. The DSL Routecraft uses a fluent DSL (Domain-Specific Language) to author capabilities. It reads like a pipeline: craft ( ) . from ( source ) . transform ( fn ) . to ( destination ) Copy This makes capabilities easy to write, read, and extend. Operations Operations are the steps inside a capability . They can transform data, filter messages, enrich responses with external calls, or split and aggregate streams. They are the verbs of the DSL: transform , filter , enrich , and more. Adapters Adapters are connectors that let your capabilities interact with the outside world. They come in different types: Sources : where data enters (HTTP requests, timers, files). Processors : steps that modify or enrich the exchange. Destinations : where the data ends up (logs, databases, APIs). Adapters make Routecraft extensible. You can use the built-ins or create your own. Exchange Every step passes along an exchange . An exchange carries the body (the main data) and headers (metadata such as IDs, parameters, or context). It is the message envelope that moves through the pipeline from start to finish. { "id" : "a3f4e1b2-9c6d-4e8a-b1f3-2d7c0e5a9f12" , "body" : { "to" : "alice@example.com" , "subject" : "Your meeting is confirmed" } , "headers" : { "routecraft.correlation_id" : "abc-123" } } Copy Context The Routecraft context is the runtime that manages your capabilities. It handles: Loading capabilities. Starting and stopping them. Hot reload in development. Running a capability once for batch jobs or tests. You can drive a context through the CLI, or embed it programmatically in your own application. How it all fits Capabilities are the secure workflows. DSL is how you describe them. Operations are the steps. Adapters connect to the outside world. Exchange is the data that flows through. Context is the engine that runs everything. These concepts make Routecraft a developer-first automation framework : straightforward to start, and powerful enough to grow with your needs. Related Installation Install via CLI or manually add packages. Project structure Nuxt-style folder layout and auto-discovery. Capabilities Author small, focused capabilities using the DSL. Previous Changelog ← Next Project structure → On this page What is Routecraft? Core Concepts Capabilities and Routes The DSL Operations Adapters Exchange Context How it all fits Related
