Routecraft - AI automation as code Routecraft Docs Blog Cheat sheet Changelog Search AI Automation as Code · v 0.6.0 Tools for agents . Or the agent harness itself. Type-safe framework for AI automation. Build the tools an agent uses, or the harness itself, with the same fluent DSL. Get started → Read the cheat sheet GitHub ↗ morning-brief.ts cron trigger 1 craft ( ) 2 . id ( 'morning-brief' ) 3 . from ( cron('0 9 * * 1-5') ) 4 . transform ( summarise ) 5 . to ( mail ( ) ) Same body. Different trigger. Change one line. cron mcp webhook mail I Bounded by design Hands, not keys. Agents have deleted production databases trying to do their job. Routecraft capabilities are bounded by design: typed inputs, authorize(), per-tool guards, the same code in test and prod. The agent gets the hands you choose, not the keyring. 01 The keyring Hand the agent raw tools and hope for the best. // Typical agent SDK setup const agent = new Agent ( { tools : [ bashTool ( ) , browserUse ( { allowAll : true } ) , computerUse ( { allowAll : true } ) ] , } ) // The agent decides what to run. // Including DROP TABLE, rm -rf, // or leaking the connection string. One bad prompt away from a production incident. 02 The hands you authored Give the agent named capabilities and nothing else. // A capability that drives the agent. craft ( ) . id ( 'triage-inbox' ) . from ( mail ( 'INBOX' ) ) . to ( agent ( { model : 'anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-6' , system : 'Triage and route inbound support mail.' , tools : tools ( [ 'Direct(publishBrief)' , 'Direct(sendDigest)' ] ) , } ) ) // One of the bounded hands the agent can reach for. craft ( ) . id ( 'publishBrief' ) . input ( BriefInput ) . authorize ( { roles : [ 'editor' ] } ) . from ( direct ( ) ) . transform ( redactPII ) . to ( http ( { url : '/feed' } ) ) The capability is the boundary. The agent has no other surface. The DSL is simple enough that an LLM can write the capability for you. You review the capability , not the prompt . Expose to an agent → II Two ways to ship agents Use Routecraft on either side of the agent. The same fluent DSL builds the tools an agent calls, and the harness that runs an agent. You pick which side you are on. Sometimes both, in the same project. 01 Tools for an agent Expose capabilities, let agents call them. Set the source to mcp() and your capability becomes an MCP tool. Claude Desktop, Cursor, ChatGPT, OpenClaw, Hermes, or any MCP-speaking client can pick it up. Auth, validation, and structured output are part of the primitive. ▸ .from(mcp()) exposes a typed tool ▸ .input(schema) validates before your code runs ▸ .authorize({ roles }) gates per-agent Expose a capability over MCP → 02 The whole agent Build the harness. Own the loop. Set the destination to agent() and the capability becomes the brain. You choose the model, the system prompt, the tools the agent can reach for, and what happens to the result. The DSL is the harness. ▸ .to(agent({ model, system })) picks the model ▸ tools([...]) scopes what the agent can do ▸ .to(direct('next')) composes into longer flows Build an agent capability → III What you can wire up The surface area. Every adapter in Routecraft, grouped by what they do. Click any name for the full signature, options, and examples. New adapters are built the same way as built-ins. Sources 09 cron () → http () → mcp () → mail () → file () → directory () → direct () → simple () → timer () → Destinations 08 mail () → file () → log () → agent () → direct () → http () → noop () → debug () → Transformers 06 json () → csv () → jsonl () → html () → group () → cosine () → AI 04 mcp () → llm () → agent () → embedding () → Testing 03 noop () → spy () → pseudo () → Need something that isn't here? Adapters are a documented, stable contract, write your own . IV Why Routecraft Thesis Every primitive an agent app needs. Type-safety, validation, auth, MCP, composability, structured logging. Production-grade plumbing so you spend your time on the agent, not the boilerplate around it. 01 Type-safe end to end Types flow through every operation. The body shape at .to() is inferred from .from() and every transform in between. 02 One DSL, every trigger Cron, webhook, MCP, IMAP, channel, file. Swap one line to change how a capability is invoked. The business logic is unchanged. 03 Native MCP integration Set the source to mcp() and the capability becomes an MCP tool that Claude Desktop, Cursor, and any MCP client can call. 04 Standard Schema validation Bring Zod, Valibot, ArkType, or anything that speaks Standard Schema. Inputs validate before your code runs. 05 Auth as a primitive jwks() verifies bearer tokens. .authorize({ roles }) gates capabilities. userinfo hydrates the principal from your IdP. 06 Compose capabilities direct() lets one capability call another with full type safety. Build a graph, test each node in isolation. 07 Structured logging Every step emits structured events. Pipe them to your log aggregator, or watch them live in the built-in TUI. 08 Plugin system Telemetry, AI, mail, custom adapters. Plugins extend the runtime without forking it. 09 Runs on Bun or Node The CLI runs TypeScript directly on Bun. Embed in any Node 22+ app via ContextBuilder. V From the blog From the field. Tutorials, postmortems, and small notes from building Routecraft in production. The full archive → ai-agents / organizations / mcp AI agents are still single-player. Your organisation isn't. The personal-assistant wave gave every employee an agent with their own access, their own memory, and their own chat window. That model cannot serve a team. The unit of organisational AI leverage is the governed capability, not the personal agent. June 30, 2026 / 7 min read / by Jaco Botha , Founder, DevOptix Read the post → Routecraft VI Try it Open the playground. Have an MCP server in thirty seconds. Run it in GitHub Codespaces without leaving your browser. Or scaffold locally and have it humming on your laptop in the same minute. Open the playground → or install locally → $ bunx create-routecraft my-app Routecraft is the framework. DevOptix is the team that ships with it. AI automation built and operated for SMBs and consultancies, by the people who wrote the framework. Talk to us ↗ Routecraft AI automation as code. A type-safe framework for connecting AI agents to your real systems. Product Documentation Cheat sheet Blog Changelog Reference Adapters Operations Plugins Events Configuration CLI Errors Community GitHub ↗ Issues ↗ Discussions ↗ Contributing FAQ © 2026 Routecraft · Apache 2.0 Built by DevOptix .
