delay · Docs - Routecraft Routecraft Docs Blog Cheat sheet Changelog Search Getting Started Installation Changelog Introduction What is Routecraft Project structure Capabilities The Exchange Operations Adapters Events Testing Deployment Monitoring Terminal UI Advanced Plugins Composing Capabilities Error Handling Filter Chain Merged Options Type Registries Creating adapters Programmatic Invocation Running an MCP server Calling an MCP Judging Agent Results Securing capabilities Linting Formatting Reference Adapters Operations Events Configuration CLI Runtime Plugins Linting Errors Examples File to HTTP MCP tool Support triage agent Community Contribution Guide FAQ v0.6.0 Ask Claude delay ← All operations delay ( delayMs : number ) : RouteBuilder < Current > Copy Wait a fixed time before the next operation runs. Pass-through: the exchange is unchanged by the wait, and the body type flows through untouched. craft ( ) . id ( 'paced-processor' ) . from ( source ) . delay ( 1000 ) . process ( operation ) // executes after a 1s wait . to ( destination ) Copy Mental model: Step scope only. .delay() wraps the immediately-next step; there is no route-scope form, because a delay over the whole pipeline is equivalent to a delay before the first step. Calling .delay() before .from() is a compile error. Parameters: delayMs - Milliseconds to wait before the next operation runs Cancellation: The wait is tied to the route's abort signal. When the route shuts down mid-wait, the remaining wait is skipped and the wrapped step still runs, so no exchange is silently dropped by a shutdown. The route:delay:stopped event carries cancelled: true in that case. Stacking: Wrappers stack outside-in in declaration order (first-declared outermost), so the position relative to other wrappers decides what is repeated: // Wait before EVERY attempt: retry re-runs the delay-wrapped step. craft ( ) . id ( 'paced-retry' ) . from ( source ) . retry ( { maxAttempts : 3 , backoffMs : 1000 } ) . delay ( 500 ) . to ( http ( { url : 'https://api.example.com' } ) ) Copy Events: route:delay:started when the wait begins; route:delay:stopped when it ends (with elapsed and the cancelled flag). See the events reference . .delay() vs .throttle() : Delay is a fixed wait per exchange. Rate limiting to N requests per second across concurrent exchanges is .throttle() , which shares a token bucket across the route so it caps the aggregate call rate.
