Operations · Docs - Routecraft Routecraft Docs Blog Cheat sheet Changelog Search Getting Started Installation Changelog Introduction What is Routecraft Project structure Capabilities The Exchange Operations Adapters Events Testing Deployment Monitoring Terminal UI Advanced Plugins Composing Capabilities Error Handling Filter Chain Merged Options Type Registries Creating adapters Programmatic Invocation Running an MCP server Calling an MCP Judging Agent Results Securing capabilities Linting Formatting Reference Adapters Operations Events Configuration CLI Runtime Plugins Linting Errors Examples File to HTTP MCP tool Support triage agent Community Contribution Guide FAQ Reference v0.6.0 Ask Claude Operations Every verb in the Routecraft DSL. Each row opens its own reference page with the full signature, options, and examples. craft ( ) . id ( 'my-route' ) . from ( simple ( 'x' ) ) . filter ( ( s ) => s . length > 0 ) . transform ( ( s ) => s + '!' ) . to ( log ( ) ) Copy Route 10 .id(name) Set the unique identifier for the route. → .title(text) Display title for tooling and docs. → .description(text) Free-text description for the route. → .input({ body, headers }) Validate the incoming exchange against a Standard Schema. → .output({ body, headers }) Validate the outgoing exchange against a Standard Schema. → .tag(value) Attach one or more tags for filtering and discovery. → .batch(options?) Process exchanges in batches instead of one at a time. → .error(handler) Catch route-scope errors before from(), or wrap the next step after from(). → .authorize({ roles, scopes }) Require an authenticated principal with optional roles or scopes. → .from(source) Set the source that produces exchanges. → Wrapper 07 .retry(options?) Retry the next operation (or the whole pipeline) on failure. → .throttle({ rate, per }) Rate-limit the next operation (or the whole pipeline). → .timeout(ms) Fail the next operation (or the whole pipeline) after a deadline. → .delay(ms) Pause before the next operation. → .cache({ key, ttl }) Cache and reuse the result of the next operation. → .circuitBreaker({ failureThreshold }) Trip after repeated failures and fast-fail until the target recovers. → .concurrency({ max }) Bound how many exchanges run the next operation (or the whole pipeline) at once (bulkhead). → Transform 07 .transform(fn) Replace the body with the function's return value. → .header(name, value) Set or override an exchange header. → .authenticate(resolver) Mint a principal from claims the resolver has verified. → .delegate(resolver) Mark the principal as exercised by an actor (an agent) on the subject’s behalf. → .map(mapping) Map fields from source to target via a declarative mapping. → .process(fn) Transform with full read-write access to the exchange. → .enrich(enricher, aggregator?) Pull data in; the result replaces the body unless an aggregator merges it. → Flow Control 12 .filter(predicate) Drop exchanges that fail the predicate. → .validate(validator) Check the body with a validator; the coerced result replaces it. → .schema(schema) Strip unknown fields per a schema, fail on validation errors. → .dedupe({ key }) Drop exchanges whose derived key has already been seen. → .choice(when(...), otherwise(...)?) Branch the pipeline by predicate. → .split(fn?) Fan out one exchange into many. → .aggregate(fn?) Fold the children of a split back into one exchange. → .multicast(...paths) Fan the exchange out to multiple paths in parallel. → .dispatch(strategy, ...targets) Run exactly one target, chosen by load-balancing strategy. → .loop(condition) Repeat a sub-pipeline while a condition holds. Planned → .sample({ every } | { intervalMs }) Pass every Nth exchange, or the first per time window. → .debounce({ waitMs }) Release only the last exchange in a burst after a quiet period. → Side Effects 04 .tap(target) Run a destination or enricher fire-and-forget; the body is unchanged. → .log(formatter?) Emit a log line for the exchange. → .debug(formatter?) Emit a log line for the exchange at debug level. → .to(destination) Push out via a destination (body unchanged) or pull in via an enricher (body replaced). → Related Adapters Sources, destinations, and transformers that connect operations to the outside world. Events The lifecycle events emitted around every operation. Errors Error codes raised by operations and how to recover them. Previous Adapters ← Next Events → On this page Route id title description input output tag batch error authorize from Wrapper retry throttle timeout delay cache circuitBreaker concurrency Transform transform header authenticate delegate map process enrich Flow Control filter validate schema dedupe choice split aggregate multicast dispatch loop planned sample debounce Side Effects tap log debug to Related
